DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Admin Dashboard Deployment Guide

## Pre-Deployment Checklist

- [ ] All database migrations applied to production
- [ ] Admin user created in production database
- [ ] Environment variables configured
- [ ] Build passes type checking (`npm run type-check`)
- [ ] Build succeeds (`npm run build`)
- [ ] No console errors in build output
- [ ] Testing completed on staging environment

## Deployment Platforms

### Option 1: Vercel (Recommended)

Vercel provides the best experience for Next.js and React apps.

#### Steps:

1. Push code to GitHub
2. Connect Vercel to your GitHub repository
3. Set environment variables in Vercel dashboard:
   ```
   VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
   VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
   VITE_API_URL=https://api.yourdomain.com
   ```
4. Vercel auto-deploys on push to main branch

#### Configuration (vercel.json):

```json
{
  "buildCommand": "npm run build",
  "outputDirectory": "dist",
  "framework": "vite"
}
```

### Option 2: Netlify

#### Steps:

1. Connect GitHub repository to Netlify
2. Build command: `npm run build`
3. Publish directory: `dist`
4. Set environment variables in Netlify UI
5. Deploy

#### netlify.toml:

```toml
[build]
  command = "npm run build"
  publish = "dist"

[build.environment]
  NODE_VERSION = "18"
  NPM_VERSION = "9"

[[redirects]]
  from = "/*"
  to = "/index.html"
  status = 200
```

### Option 3: AWS S3 + CloudFront

#### Steps:

1. Build the app: `npm run build`
2. Create S3 bucket:
   ```bash
   aws s3 mb s3://homicare-admin-dashboard
   ```
3. Upload build:
   ```bash
   aws s3 sync dist/ s3://homicare-admin-dashboard --delete
   ```
4. Create CloudFront distribution pointing to S3
5. Set environment variables via CloudFront headers or build-time injection

### Option 4: Docker + Self-Hosted

#### Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
FROM node:18-alpine

WORKDIR /app

# Copy package files
COPY package*.json ./

# Install dependencies
RUN npm ci --omit=dev

# Copy source
COPY . .

# Build
RUN npm run build

# Use lightweight HTTP server
RUN npm install -g serve

EXPOSE 3000

CMD ["serve", "-s", "dist", "-l", "3000"]
```

#### Docker Compose:

```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  admin-dashboard:
    build:
      context: ./admin-dashboard
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      VITE_SUPABASE_URL: ${VITE_SUPABASE_URL}
      VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY: ${VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY}
      VITE_API_URL: ${VITE_API_URL}
    restart: unless-stopped
```

## Environment-Specific Configs

### Development (.env.local)
```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-dev.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=dev-anon-key
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:3001
```

### Staging (.env.staging)
```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-staging.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=staging-anon-key
VITE_API_URL=https://api-staging.yourdomain.com
```

### Production (.env.production)
```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-prod.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=prod-anon-key
VITE_API_URL=https://api.yourdomain.com
```

## Post-Deployment

1. Test login with admin credentials
2. Verify dashboard loads all pages
3. Check browser console for errors
4. Test data fetching from Supabase
5. Monitor error logs

## Security Considerations

### CORS Configuration

Update Supabase CORS settings to allow your domain:

1. Go to Supabase Project Settings > API
2. Add your deployment URL to allowed origins

### Rate Limiting

Implement rate limiting to prevent abuse:

```typescript
// Example: rate limiting middleware
import rateLimit from 'express-rate-limit';

const limiter = rateLimit({
  windowMs: 15 * 60 * 1000, // 15 minutes
  max: 100 // limit each IP to 100 requests per windowMs
});

app.use('/api/', limiter);
```

### API Key Protection

Never commit secrets to git:

- Use `.env.local` (in .gitignore)
- Use platform-specific secret management (Vercel, Netlify, etc.)
- Rotate keys periodically

## Monitoring & Logging

### Application Performance Monitoring

Add Sentry for error tracking:

```typescript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/react";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "your-sentry-dsn",
  environment: process.env.VITE_APP_ENVIRONMENT,
});
```

### Database Monitoring

Use Supabase built-in monitoring:
1. Go to Supabase Dashboard > Logs > Database
2. Set up alerts for slow queries
3. Monitor auth logs for failed login attempts

### Analytics

Implement Google Analytics or similar:

```typescript
// add to main.tsx
import ReactGA from 'react-ga4';

ReactGA.initialize("GA_MEASUREMENT_ID");
```

## Rollback Procedure

If deployment has issues:

1. **Vercel/Netlify**: Click "Rollback" on previous deployment
2. **S3**: Restore from previous version
3. **Docker**: Pull and run previous image tag

## CI/CD Pipeline Example (GitHub Actions)

```yaml
name: Deploy Admin Dashboard

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
    paths:
      - 'admin-dashboard/**'

jobs:
  build-and-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: '18'
      
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: npm ci
        working-directory: admin-dashboard
      
      - name: Type check
        run: npm run type-check
        working-directory: admin-dashboard
      
      - name: Build
        run: npm run build
        working-directory: admin-dashboard
        env:
          VITE_SUPABASE_URL: ${{ secrets.VITE_SUPABASE_URL }}
          VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY: ${{ secrets.VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY }}
          VITE_API_URL: ${{ secrets.VITE_API_URL }}
      
      - name: Deploy to Vercel
        run: npx vercel deploy --prod --token=${{ secrets.VERCEL_TOKEN }}
        working-directory: admin-dashboard
```

## Troubleshooting Deployment

### Build fails
- Check Node.js version matches requirements
- Clear npm cache: `npm cache clean --force`
- Delete node_modules and reinstall

### Environment variables not loading
- Check variable names match (case-sensitive)
- Ensure variables are set in deployment platform
- For Vite, variables must start with `VITE_`

### CORS errors
- Verify domain is in Supabase CORS allowed list
- Check browser console for exact error
- May need to configure backend CORS headers

### Blank page on load
- Check network requests in DevTools
- Verify Supabase endpoint is accessible
- Check browser console for JavaScript errors

Commit message:

Add migrations for provider withdrawals and RLS management
- Create migration to temporarily disable RLS for data insertion in provider_withdrawals.
- Insert test withdrawal data for providers with various statuses.
- Add a second version of the test withdrawals insertion with RLS disabled.
- Fix provider_withdrawals schema by adding missing updated_at column and updating trigger.
- Disable RLS for testing purposes and drop existing policies.
- Disable RLS on related tables involved in withdrawal queries.
- Disable RLS on admin_users table and drop related policies.
- Re-enable RLS with authenticated user policies for provider_withdrawals, provider_payout_methods, providers, and admin_users.
- Create stored procedure to mark withdrawals as paid, bypassing RLS using SECURITY DEFINER.
- Add diagnostic scripts for super admin login checks and RLS testing.
- Implement tests for updating withdrawal statuses from the browser and server-side.

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Admin Dashboard Deployment Guide

## Pre-Deployment Checklist

- [ ] All database migrations applied to production
- [ ] Admin user created in production database
- [ ] Environment variables configured
- [ ] Build passes type checking (`npm run type-check`)
- [ ] Build succeeds (`npm run build`)
- [ ] No console errors in build output
- [ ] Testing completed on staging environment

## Deployment Platforms

### Option 1: Vercel (Recommended)

Vercel provides the best experience for Next.js and React apps.

#### Steps:

1. Push code to GitHub
2. Connect Vercel to your GitHub repository
3. Set environment variables in Vercel dashboard:
   ```
   VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
   VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
   VITE_API_URL=https://api.yourdomain.com
   ```
4. Vercel auto-deploys on push to main branch

#### Configuration (vercel.json):

```json
{
  "buildCommand": "npm run build",
  "outputDirectory": "dist",
  "framework": "vite"
}
```

### Option 2: Netlify

#### Steps:

1. Connect GitHub repository to Netlify
2. Build command: `npm run build`
3. Publish directory: `dist`
4. Set environment variables in Netlify UI
5. Deploy

#### netlify.toml:

```toml
[build]
  command = "npm run build"
  publish = "dist"

[build.environment]
  NODE_VERSION = "18"
  NPM_VERSION = "9"

[[redirects]]
  from = "/*"
  to = "/index.html"
  status = 200
```

### Option 3: AWS S3 + CloudFront

#### Steps:

1. Build the app: `npm run build`
2. Create S3 bucket:
   ```bash
   aws s3 mb s3://homicare-admin-dashboard
   ```
3. Upload build:
   ```bash
   aws s3 sync dist/ s3://homicare-admin-dashboard --delete
   ```
4. Create CloudFront distribution pointing to S3
5. Set environment variables via CloudFront headers or build-time injection

### Option 4: Docker + Self-Hosted

#### Dockerfile:

```dockerfile
FROM node:18-alpine

WORKDIR /app

# Copy package files
COPY package*.json ./

# Install dependencies
RUN npm ci --omit=dev

# Copy source
COPY . .

# Build
RUN npm run build

# Use lightweight HTTP server
RUN npm install -g serve

EXPOSE 3000

CMD ["serve", "-s", "dist", "-l", "3000"]
```

#### Docker Compose:

```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  admin-dashboard:
    build:
      context: ./admin-dashboard
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      VITE_SUPABASE_URL: ${VITE_SUPABASE_URL}
      VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY: ${VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY}
      VITE_API_URL: ${VITE_API_URL}
    restart: unless-stopped
```

## Environment-Specific Configs

### Development (.env.local)
```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-dev.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=dev-anon-key
VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:3001
```

### Staging (.env.staging)
```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-staging.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=staging-anon-key
VITE_API_URL=https://api-staging.yourdomain.com
```

### Production (.env.production)
```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-prod.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=prod-anon-key
VITE_API_URL=https://api.yourdomain.com
```

## Post-Deployment

1. Test login with admin credentials
2. Verify dashboard loads all pages
3. Check browser console for errors
4. Test data fetching from Supabase
5. Monitor error logs
6. Follow [SECURITY_ROLLOUT_CHECKLIST.md](SECURITY_ROLLOUT_CHECKLIST.md) for security migration/CORS/CSP rollout order

## Security Considerations

### CORS Configuration

Use strict allowlist-based CORS for admin edge functions:

1. In Supabase Edge Function secrets, configure:
  ```env
  SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
  SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your-service-role-key
  ALLOWED_ORIGINS=https://admin.yourdomain.com,https://staging-admin.yourdomain.com,http://localhost:3000
  ```
2. Ensure every admin frontend origin is listed in `ALLOWED_ORIGINS`.
3. Keep wildcard origins disabled for privileged admin endpoints.

`SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` is accepted for backward compatibility, but `SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` is preferred.

### CSP Rollout (Report-Only → Enforced)

1. Keep `Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only` in [public/_headers](public/_headers) during observation.
2. Review violations in browser/dev tooling and confirm required sources are covered.
3. When stable, replace `public/_headers` with [public/_headers.csp-enforce-template](public/_headers.csp-enforce-template) and deploy.
4. Monitor for blocked resource regressions after enforcement.

### Rate Limiting

Implement rate limiting to prevent abuse:

```typescript
// Example: rate limiting middleware
import rateLimit from 'express-rate-limit';

const limiter = rateLimit({
  windowMs: 15 * 60 * 1000, // 15 minutes
  max: 100 // limit each IP to 100 requests per windowMs
});

app.use('/api/', limiter);
```

### API Key Protection

Never commit secrets to git:

- Use `.env.local` (in .gitignore)
- Use platform-specific secret management (Vercel, Netlify, etc.)
- Rotate keys periodically

## Monitoring & Logging

### Application Performance Monitoring

Add Sentry for error tracking:

```typescript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/react";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "your-sentry-dsn",
  environment: process.env.VITE_APP_ENVIRONMENT,
});
```

### Database Monitoring

Use Supabase built-in monitoring:
1. Go to Supabase Dashboard > Logs > Database
2. Set up alerts for slow queries
3. Monitor auth logs for failed login attempts

### Analytics

Implement Google Analytics or similar:

```typescript
// add to main.tsx
import ReactGA from 'react-ga4';

ReactGA.initialize("GA_MEASUREMENT_ID");
```

## Rollback Procedure

If deployment has issues:

1. **Vercel/Netlify**: Click "Rollback" on previous deployment
2. **S3**: Restore from previous version
3. **Docker**: Pull and run previous image tag

## CI/CD Pipeline Example (GitHub Actions)

```yaml
name: Deploy Admin Dashboard

on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
    paths:
      - 'admin-dashboard/**'

jobs:
  build-and-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: '18'
      
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: npm ci
        working-directory: admin-dashboard
      
      - name: Type check
        run: npm run type-check
        working-directory: admin-dashboard
      
      - name: Build
        run: npm run build
        working-directory: admin-dashboard
        env:
          VITE_SUPABASE_URL: ${{ secrets.VITE_SUPABASE_URL }}
          VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY: ${{ secrets.VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY }}
          VITE_API_URL: ${{ secrets.VITE_API_URL }}
      
      - name: Deploy to Vercel
        run: npx vercel deploy --prod --token=${{ secrets.VERCEL_TOKEN }}
        working-directory: admin-dashboard
```

## Troubleshooting Deployment

### Build fails
- Check Node.js version matches requirements
- Clear npm cache: `npm cache clean --force`
- Delete node_modules and reinstall

### Environment variables not loading
- Check variable names match (case-sensitive)
- Ensure variables are set in deployment platform
- For Vite, variables must start with `VITE_`

### CORS errors
- Verify domain is in Supabase CORS allowed list
- Check browser console for exact error
- May need to configure backend CORS headers

### Blank page on load
- Check network requests in DevTools
- Verify Supabase endpoint is accessible
- Check browser console for JavaScript errors
